okay so with the Xbox series X and
PlayStation 5 announcements that
happened this week I've had this strong
interest in consoles that I normally
don't have and it revolves mostly around
the hardware like both of these systems
have incredibly strong Hardware not just
for a console but just incredibly strong
Hardware period like if you tried to
build a PC with this kind of stuff if
you have an 8 core CPU in there and a 10
to 12 teraflop GPU in there it's not
cheap and you throw in a 1 terabyte SSD
like that is a high-end PC high-end
gaming PC which is that stuff is
expensive and then if because this is a
console it is probably gonna sell for
like five maybe six hundred dollars it's
not gonna be super expensive so for the
price of a decent graphics card for just
like if I was gonna upgrade my PC for
the price of just a graphics card I can
get a whole system like a whole gaming
console for 600 bucks that's incredible
and even though I'm not a huge console
gamer I look at that and I respect that
and also there's very clear advantages
to console gaming right look if you're
not particularly savvy with tech you can
just go into a store pick it up but the
whole simplicity of console gaming is
one of its biggest appeals like there's
no friction you go into a store pick up
the system set it up you're done like
you're playing you know there's no like
there's no research there's no getting
sweaty over which component to pick
there's no you know you don't want to
watch tech tips from Linus to figure out
how to build your PC you just go like
you've been playing that game within
minutes of bringing that system home
because of how easy everything is to set
up and there's also the advantage of
titles like you can have exclusive
titles on consoles but the big thing is
pricing consoles tend to be way cheaper
to get into than a gaming desktop but as
I looked at this announcement and I
looked at all the specs from the PS 5
and the Xbox series X I had a whole
bunch of thoughts in my mind I just want
to share them with you the first thing
is how impressive everything looks right
now and I think it does because of the
timing of these announcements like when
you look at the timeline of this this is
March
we're in March right now we're like eat
maybe even nine months out from when
these products are actually gonna come
out that's a long time that's a really
long time before holiday 2020 so yeah
the specs do look
but there's also the timing of these
announcements relative to component
announcements so like CPUs and GPUs for
desktops we're kind of on the tail end
of that product cycle right now so we're
gonna see refreshes in both graphics and
CPUs for desktop PCs really soon over
the next month or two so as impressive
that this stuff looks right now I think
by the time these products actually
launch like when the Xbox series X and
the PlayStation 5 actually come out
during the holiday season they won't be
as impressive as they look right now
okay another thing pricing these devices
are I mean their consoles they're going
to be remarkably inexpensive at launch
but they're designed to be lost leaders
at launch like these products are
designed to pull in customers into their
ecosystems and to keep them there and
the reason why they're comfortable
eating dirt on their console pricing is
because they're gonna sell you games
which they don't want to pay like Steam
or the epic game store or any kind of
cut they're selling you accessories
they're selling you those monthly passes
be able to play online they will make
their money elsewhere so they're very
comfortable selling you these cheap
consoles to start and once you're in
that ecosystem you start spending some
money on games you spend a couple
hundred bucks or maybe in a thousand
bucks you can't leave your you can't
take that library and just go somewhere
else you got to stay with whichever
console you got that thing for so I mean
yes the companies are working on you
know backwards compatibility that's why
it's so important to them that's why all
the companies are like hey you know yeah
we're supporting our older games because
if you if you don't support them you're
basically telling your customers to burn
their entire library of older games but
the point I'm trying to make is that
there's hidden costs when it comes to
these super cheap consoles they are very
appealing and they're super cheap for
the type of hardware you're getting but
it's for a reason another thing I want
to mention is the marketing around like
the 4k 64k 120 or even 8k gaming that
can come out of these systems I feel
like that's very ambitious not that it's
impossible like it is entirely possible
for this hardware to push out that type
of framerate it usually doesn't happen
like if you look at the current consoles
they are already capable of four case
see like the Xbox 1x and even the ps4
Pro they can push at 4k 60 but not a lot
of Triple E developers push out that
type of framerate with those systems and
it's because the average Tripoli
developer chooses higher quality
graphics instead of higher frame rates
because that's the stuff that sells if
you look at ps4 commercials or Xbox
commercials that stuff looks crazy good
because they focused on image quality
not frame rate it's actually very
difficult to sell high frame rate gaming
to the average person not everyone
appreciates that stuff so if you're
someone that expects 4k 120 or even 8k
gaming like I think your temper your
expectations because I think that's more
of an ambitious goal instead of
something that they'll achieve anytime
soon Microsoft in particular has said
that they're not gonna be making any
first party exclusives for the first
year on the Xbox series X so what that
means is that any game that comes out
with the launch of the Xbox Series X is
going to also be available for their
Xbox one and possibly PC as well and
what that means and that in the bigger
picture is that if you're a developer
you have to kind of your
development ambition for those games
like you can't make some super crazy
stuff that works with the Xbox series X
because it has to also work with the
older stuff as well
Sony the PlayStation 5 they don't have
that rule so they have some developers
that will be making games specifically
for the PS 5 and no other system and I
don't mean just like exclusive titles I
mean it's going to only work on the PS 5
not even the PS 4 pro so games at launch
I think are gonna look better with the
PS 5 than the Xbox series X not that the
series X is gonna look bad or anything
but I just don't think that they can
push that hardware as hard as the PS 5
guys can at launch another thing I found
really interesting was that both
consoles are gonna support ray tracing
and that's huge in the past the only ray
tracing that was available was stuff on
PCs right like the 1% of PC users that
had the high end cards that could
support ray tracing but now developers
have a huge or they will have a huge
group of people that have ray tracing
capable hardware so it's just way more
incentive for developers to put ray
tracing elements into games I think
we'll just see a big jump in the uptake
of ray-tracing tech which is awesome now
I think both the Xbox Series X and the
PlayStation 5 are gonna be big like
they're gonna move that needle for a
gaming hardware and the gaming
experience in ways that no consoles have
done in the past like I think the idea
of an SSD like it just changes the
nature of console gaming it's gonna be
good if especially for people that are
really into console gaming but if you're
one of my viewers that you know you're
normally in our console gamer but you
look at this stuff with interest because
you know the tech is gonna be good you
know the hardware is comparable to what
pcs offer and you know the price tag is
probably gonna be quite good just
remember its price like that for a
reason and also remember it is just a
console a really good console but a
console okay hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs we liked it subs if he
loves it see you guys next time